Networking Training program 
Module 3 and 4 assessment questions.
 
Tools you can use for below questions: VirtualBox with Linux VMs, GNS3, Cisco Packet Tracer, Wireshark etc. 

1. Simulate a small network with switches and multiple devices. Use ping to generate traffic and observe the MAC address table of the switch. 

Ans: I have used CISCO packet tracer tool and I have constructed 2 LAN network with 2 switches and it was connected by a router.
Then I have configured IP for each PC and router an then using PING command I generated a network traffic and viewed it using real time simulation packet capture tool.

2. Capture and analyze Ethernet frames using Wireshark. Inspect the structure of the frame, including destination and source MAC addresses, Ethertype, payload, and FCS. 

Ans: In wireshark I have filtered ethernet and wifi packets of PING google.com which is executed in cmd. Then by double clicking the ICMP packet captured
we can able to see the frame structure of a packet with source address, dest address, length of data (payload) and so on.

3. Use GNS3 or Packet Tracer to simulate network traffic. 

Ans: I have used same network of first question and simulated network traffic using Real time simulation in CISCO packet tracer tool. 

4. Configure static IP addresses, modify MAC addresses, and verify network connectivity using ping and ifconfig commands. 

Ans: Successfully accomplished this task using same network and MAC address spoofing was performed along with ip coinfig.

5. Troubleshoot Ethernet Communication with ping and traceroute -> Using cisco packet tracer

Ans: Explanation is given along with pictures inside Qn5 folder.

6. Create a simple LAN setup with two Linux machines connected via a switch. 
7. Ping from one machine to the other. If it fails, use ifconfig to ensure the IP addresses are configured correctly. 
8. Use traceroute to identify where the packets are being dropped if the ping fails. 
9. Research the Linux kernel's handling of Ethernet devices and network interfaces. Write a short report on how the Linux kernel supports Ethernet communication (referencing kernel.org documentation). 
10. Describe how you would configure a basic LAN interface using the ip command in Linux (kernel.org). 

